DEV_README

Author: Dave Hanks

Developers notes after installing node.js and cloning repo

To begin running, modifying and debugging the ION config
tool, in the editor directory run this command:

     > npm install

This should bring in all the dependencies that the ION
config tool needs to run. To test the checkout of ION
config tool run this command:

     > npm start

This should start the ION config tool editor in your
default web browser. Starting this way will also make
the developer tools in the browser aware of the source
code. Thus, break points, watches, console output, etc... 
are available while developing and debugging. It will also
enable hot reloading when changes to the source are made.

For building and deploying the ION config tool for 
distribution see DOBUILD and DORELEASE in the ionconfig
directory.

NOTE: I used Visual Studio Code on a Mac to develop, test 
and debug. It has a very rich set of tools built into the 
IDE that makes this easier than using the built-in 
developer tools included with most web browsers (ie. Chrome). 

Visual Studio Code is open-source and available for 
download for all major platforms. 

  https://code.visualstudio.com/

A FEW NOTES FOR FUTURE DEVELOPMENT

As of July 2025, most of this application is written
in an older style of React (components are defined as
extending a parent React.component). This style is no
longer the recommended way to create and maintain
React objects. See the newer code used to access
the Node database for examples of the recommended way.

If you have the time to convert the older objects into
functional components instead of classes, go for it!
Note that this has far reaching implications for
managing state and properties as they are vastly different
in the functional component style.

Go to this link for more on migrating components:

  https://react.dev/reference/react/Component

In the meantime, the old and new styles can coexist
happily since transpiling during the build process works
fine.

Any new React objects should be functional components
and *not* class objects.

